how to become a social media manager in
a lot of people ask me this question but
some don't have the slightest idea of
what a social media media needs to bring
to the table in order to succeed and
trust me posting those instagram images
isn't enough and that's perfectly fine
because that's how i started off and i
learned through a lot of trial and error
on what needs to be done to be effective
social media manager and i knew how to
get traffic to a website and make that
traffic generate and produce sales or
leads
but that's as far as i knew when i first
started off and then over time i learned
how to adapt that get that repeat
purchasers get them to keep coming back
and upselling and referring their
friends and today i'm going to teach you
what you need to do to become the best
social media manager out there
according to a report produced by we are
social and hootsuite
57.6 of the world's population is on
social media that's roughly
4.55 billion people and
there's a ton more coming online this
means that social media experts will
become more and more important for any
company that wants to reach its target
audience so let's dive into the steps
that you need to take in order to become
a social media manager
step one get some basic education you
don't need to be in college if you don't
want to be a social media manager
college degree isn't going to help you
with that you need to get in tune with
your customers that's what i mean by
education in fact you're more likely to
succeed if
you focus on getting to understand your
ideal audience
from getting a formal education business
or marketing or any related thing i
don't think that's going to do any good
versus just actually experimenting and
figuring out what people are liking and
what's causing them to stick around and
here are some courses that will help you
get started facebook social media
marketing professional certificate check
that out instagram unlocked linkedin
unlocked facebook unlocked they're all
on the neil patel website for free step
two get some test clients pro tip focus
on a niche because when you focus on a
niche and do well it's easier to get
more clients in that niche do lots of
competitive research especially in the
niche you're targeting identify your
potential customers their weaknesses
right come up with the action plan for
these clients and customers that you're
trying to attract and then overcome
because you can do it you're smart you
can figure it out you've gotten here so
far right you can do well as long as you
put your mind to it and work for lower
rates or and even sometimes work for
free just to get started it's a great
way to get your foot in the door
although you can't see my foot moving
forward
and then you can go in and eventually
get paid i've shared a strategy that i
use to get clients for my ad agency and
it worked extremely well in one of my
youtube videos and you should check it
out and use it to get your first clients
too
step three build a portfolio of great
results be aggressive with your testing
when you're working with your clients
you want to produce results not do
anything unethical not do anything shady
but you need to be aggressive and
continue the test and put in the hours
test different content formats test
different content topics one skill that
you need will be great at analytics you
need to look at the data see what's
getting the likes the shares that clicks
the website and causing the purchases do
a deep dive into what's working and what
isn't working that's very important to
you so that way you can understand more
of the stuff you should create and less
of the stuff that's failing and that's
not really helping you succeed
i want you to double down and then
continually experiment with new formats
even once you find the winners because
over time things change and you need to
understand what not just makes your
audience tick but what continually makes
them tick as things of market conditions
change step four establish and improve
your processes as you become more
experienced you'll find that there are
activities that you're continually doing
repeatedly over and over and over and
over and over and over again and you
don't want to do that so make sure that
you document those and you either get a
people to help you out or you find tools
that'll automate some of that stuff and
some of these things include client
onboarding delivery of specific services
reporting to clients communications with
clients right there's a lot of tools to
help with that stuff step five create
your client acquisition funnel if you're
gonna sell yourself as a social media
manager it's important that you start
promoting yourself actively on social
media over time you'll understand what
works best to educate your potential
clients entertain them and even get them
involved in your brand to get them
interested in your services put together
some offers that reflect those
interactions so that way you don't have
to continually come up with custom
services for your clients
step six
hire and scale bring along people that
will help scale up the processes people
who have the right competencies enough
experiences in other words you're hiring
people who have already done it before
for new people that have never been in
social media what do you got to do you
got to train them but if you hired
someone who's done it successfully not
once not twice but over three times the
chances are they'll do it for you
successfully as well